+++
title = "A new gb-vendor plugin"
date = "2015-05-26"
+++

After an uncertain history the `gb-vendor` plugin has been replaced and returns to the main repository.

<!--more-->

## History

`gb-vendor` was a proof of concept for extending `gb` with plugins. `gb-vendor` was the second (the first was `gb-env`, so that almost doesn't count) plugin I wrote for `gb`.

`gb-vendor` wrapped the `go tool`, which made for a simple demo at [GDG Berlin](http://www.meetup.com/golang-users-berlin/), but a confusing message -- if `gb` was a _new_ build tool, why did it need the `go` tool to fetch dependencies, etc.

Based on the feedback I received after the meetup, this issue became an acute point of confusion, so I moved `gb-vendor` to its own repository to make it clear that it was not required for using `gb`.

In the place of `gb-vendor` I suggested that people follow the manual process set out in the [getting started](/examples/getting-started) guide, or if their politics allowed, use git subtrees or submodules; the latter proving difficult to use if the dependency was itself a `gb` project.

The status quo has held, more or less, for a the last month, but it was clear that the majority of `gb` users wanted an integrated solution that wouldn't just allow them to set up an initial repository, but would assist them managing those dependencies as their project evolved.

## gb-vendor is back

Today, with the help of several contributors to the project (more on that in a bit) I landed a replacement version of `gb-vendor`. We're still working on the plugin's documentation, but for the enthusiastic here is a quick overview.

### Usage

```
% gb vendor
Usage:
  gb vendor delete [flags] [package] - deletes a local dependency
  gb vendor fetch [flags] [package] - fetch a remote dependency
  gb vendor update [flags] [package] - updates a local dependency
```

`gb-vendor fetch` is our equivalent of `go get`, it takes the usual import path that looks like a URL. Only GitHub is supported at the moment (but this is being actively improved). Vanity URLs are also not supported (yet). Here is an example
```
% gb vendor fetch github.com/kr/fs
Cloning into '/tmp/gb-vendor-161722046'...
remote: Counting objects: 18, done.
remote: Total 18 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 18
Unpacking objects: 100% (18/18), done.
Checking connectivity... done.
copyfile(dst: /home/dfc/devel/demo4/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs/LICENSE, src: /tmp/gb-vendor-161722046/LICENSE)
copyfile(dst: /home/dfc/devel/demo4/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs/Readme, src: /tmp/gb-vendor-161722046/Readme)
copyfile(dst: /home/dfc/devel/demo4/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs/example_test.go, src: /tmp/gb-vendor-161722046/example_test.go)
copyfile(dst: /home/dfc/devel/demo4/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs/filesystem.go, src: /tmp/gb-vendor-161722046/filesystem.go)
copyfile(dst: /home/dfc/devel/demo4/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs/walk.go, src: /tmp/gb-vendor-161722046/walk.go)
copyfile(dst: /home/dfc/devel/demo4/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs/walk_test.go, src: /tmp/gb-vendor-161722046/walk_test.go)
```
This command fetches the source of `https://github.com/kr/fs` and copies it into `$PROJECT/vendor/src/github.com/kr/fs`, excluding `.git`, `.gitignore`, and other dotfiles. The output is quite verbose at the moment, this will get more succinct over time.

`gb-vendor fetch`ing the same dependency twice is an error.

`gb-vendor update` updates an existing dependency to the head of its branch.

`gb-vendor delete` removes the source of the dependency from `$PROJECT/vendor/src/` and from the manifest file.

## Manifest, what!

Hang on. Isn't this the `gb` project that made a big song and dance about not needing some kind of manifest or metadata file?

`gb-vendor` records dependencies fetched in a manifest file. This is a json file because encoding/json comes for free with the standard library, and is somewhat human readable. The manifest file is not used by `gb`, it is used only by `gb-vendor`.

## gb-vendor is optional

The important part is `gb-vendor` is optional. `gb` does not require it, all `gb` cares about is the projects' source is laid out as expected -- how it got there is not `gb`'s concern. If your project wants to manage its dependencies another way, `gb` doesn't care.

## Thank you valued associates

`gb` would not be possible without its contributors. I want to give special thanks to [Mario Kostelac](https://github.com/mariokostelac), [Dávid Kaya](https://github.com/davidkaya), and [Jesus Alvarez](https://github.com/demizer).

And thank you to all the testers who have tried `gb` and filed bug reports; you know who you are.
