+++
title = "What's new in gb, 2015-07-01"
date = "2015-07-01"
+++

An update on the changes that have landed in gb in the last fortnight.

<!--more-->

Progress has been slowed by preparations for GopherCon, we'll be back to full speed later in July.

## Stickers

Fancy a [gb sticker](https://twitter.com/davecheney/status/615753497795899392) ? Come and say _Hi_ at GopherCon next week, or GoSF the week after, or OSCON the week after that.

## gb vendor fetch now defaults to recursive fetching

The big change that landed since the last update is `gb vendor fetch` will now recursively fetch dependencies. This behaviour is the default. You can use `-no-recurse` to disable recursive fetching.

## gb fetch supports -tag

`gb vendor fetch` now supports one of the following 

- `-revision`
- `-branch`
- `-tag`

See the [documentation](http://godoc.org/github.com/constabulary/gb/cmd/gb-vendor) for full details.

## Support for insecure protocols

`gb vendor` now supports fetching [remote metadata](http://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Remote_import_paths) and DVCS repositories over insecure protocols, _cough_ http _cough_. 

This feature is not enabled by default, please consult the [documentation](http://godoc.org/github.com/constabulary/gb/cmd/gb-vendor) for details.

## gb vendor update 

Updating from one copy of a dependency to another comes with several restrictions. The first is you can only update to the head of the branch your dependency was vendored from, switching branches is not supported. The second restriction is if you have used `-tag` or `-revision` while vendoring a dependency, your dependency is "headless" (to borrow a term from git) and cannot be updated.

To update across branches, or from one tag/revision to another, you must first use `gb vendor delete` to remove the dependency, then `gb vendor fetch [-tag | -revision | -branch ]` to replace it.

## gb-vendor is now feature complete

With the completion of the features above I'm declaring the `gb-vendor` plugin feature complete and am moving back to working on the core of gb. This is not to say that new `gb-vendor` features will not be landed in the future, but none are currently planned. 

As always, pull requests (after discussion) are warmly welcomed.

Please consult the [gb-vendor](https://github.com/constabulary/gb/issues?q=milestone%3Agb-vendor) milestone for more details.

## Graduations

Congratulations to Dávid Kaya for completing his bachelor's examinations.

## Thanks

Thank you to the [growing list of gb contributors](https://github.com/constabulary/gb/graphs/contributors). You're awesome.
